From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 32 recorded
live Thursday, October 2nd, 2008. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik red controls. The most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
discusses subsonic with Rob Connery.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'm
sitting down right now with
Rob Connery, my partner in
crime at Microsoft, a program
manager. What, what group do
you work in? Rob? Are
you on the asp.net group?
No, I'm not in the
asp.net group. I actually work
with Sean Burke in the silver
light tooling group. Believe it
or not tooling. Yeah, but
you're kind of best known
for building a subsonic. And
then most recently been doing
some really cool stuff with
the MVC storefront. How has
that Silverlight doing well? Interestingly,
we, when I started, I
started off in the agility
group and it's kind of
an internal group to Microsoft.
And Sean was the director
of that group. They were
the guys that did the
Ajax control toolkit. And so
the best way that we
used to look at it
was, you know, there's sort
of a little pack of
ninjas that could work outside
of some of the software
strictures within Microsoft. And they
could do things like work
on code, flex projects and
so on. So this stuff
that I was doing for
NBC initially, which was the
HTML control tool kit sort
of outside or out of
band, as they say internally,
I'm not really part of
the core. Stuff's the, they
loved it to Sean's group
and I got to work
on it. That's how, that's
how that all started. Oh,
so you were Sean, Burke's
private Ninja, Sean. Burke's private.
Exactly. And I am on
fire. Thank you very much.
Very cool. Okay. And then,
and you've been doing the
NBC storefront. How many of
those screencasts have you done
so far? I am recording
number 22 right now. Believe
it or not. That's you
shamed me. You've shamed me
with your, with your talented
does. Screencasts see all of
those, that asp.net/mvc if I
understand correctly. That's right. Yes.
So you've been building this
storefront. When is it going
to be done? You know,
that's a good question. I
get asked that question a
lot in internally. And my
answer is, I don't really
know. I think the initial
rev was going to be
done here in the next
month. And, but I know
there's going to be things
I'm going to need to
add tweak and change to
it, but hopefully the initial
bits will be done in
a month or so I
think. Okay. Now, what do
you, what do you use
for the, for the data
access layer? Cause you're known
for subsonic, which is a
data access layer generator. What
do you, what are you
using for the storefront? Well,
interestingly, I'm using linked to
SQL the goal of the
storefront is to be lightweight,
reusable, expandable. And so, you
know, I had to kind
of go with something that
people are familiar with and
can use. And, you know,
subsonic is, it's got a
decent following, but not that
many people in ASP world
use it. So I had
to go with something that
people were immediately familiar with.
In addition, subsonic, as of
now doesn't do any of
the eye queryable stuff. So
I had to go with
something cause my repository demands,
I queryable. So I had
to go with something that
did that. Now this is
interesting. So you're also working
on patterns. You're thinking about
patterns when you're doing this,
this is an educational experience,
not just for the public,
but for yourself as well.
What is this eye repository
pattern that you've kind of
you and Phil and some
other folks have worked out.
I know that there's a
common repository pattern, but you
guys have a specific one
for link. Yeah. It was
an interesting thing that came
about, you know, and we,
when we started doing the
storefront, I was interviewing a
bunch of guys, you know,
I didn't want to make
any mistakes, so to speak.
And I wanted to kind
of please the police, the
crowd that used MVC the
most. So I talked to
Steve Harmon and I and
D Raheen and a couple
of things that came out
of it was the idea
of using I queryable as
the repository return type. And
initially it was like, well,
that sounds interesting. You know,
we'll do some late CQL
execution here, but what ended
up happening is that, you
know, since you can build
your queries on top of
an eye queryable later, in
other words, keep building this
expression out. What ended up
happening is we built a
really lean repository API. In
other words, in the typical
repository pattern, you have a
get by kind of a
get by problem. In other
words, your API bleeds and
bleeds and bleeds and gets
bigger and bigger and bigger.
As you need more functionality
from your database. What you
can do with an eye
queryable repository is you can
have, let's say five core
returns and maybe one saved
method and you might have
just something like get products.
And then you, what you
can do is you can
push the filtration up one
level into say business logic.
And then you can say,
get products, dash where product
ID equals, blah, blah, blah.
And so it was a
very fascinating turn of a
turn of a pattern there.
I got, I got a
little bit of backlash to
it. People didn't like me
moving their repository, cheese. And
they were like, this is
not what Fowler says to
do. And so, you know,
it was good. It was
a good interchange, but as
people have been using it,
they really like it. And
I have to say, I
really enjoy the simplicity of
it all. And do you
think that things have calmed
down and people think it's
a good thing? Or are
they still, you still got
enemies? No, I think the
more people that I wouldn't
say they're enemies, they're just
saying, you know, the pattern
police, right? They were just
saying this isn't, this isn't
what Valerie says to do.
And it was a good
point because they, what they
mostly concerned about was I
was calling it the repository
pattern in what you're saying.
Yeah. Linked to SQL grub,
Connery repository pattern, as told
to I repository pattern. Has
anyone asked Martin when he
thinks, no, not yet. See
how I just said Martin.
Like I like we hang
out all the time. Why
name dropper? I heard that
about you. Me and Martin
hanging out at Chipotle. Sorry.
It's taco taco time with
Martin and yeah. Anyway, I
hear handsome, handsome Hansel minutes.
Next Hansel minutes. We'll be
talk with time with Martin.
I think that's what the
title should be Taco time
with Martin. I think that
I'll call him and I
may just do that just
to make a point. Okay.
So why didn't you use
subsonic and are you going
to move it over to
subside? Well, the main reason
I didn't use subsonic is
because I am still working
on version 3.0, which is
implementing queryable and that is
not easy stuff. And it
requires that I rejigger a
lot of the internals of
the way subsonic does things
Implement Ikea. Well, you're going
to become a, you're going
to be subsonic link pro.
Exactly. Yeah. So Yeah, I've
heard from my end day
that that is nontrivial. It
is exactly. Non-trivial, it's an
amazingly complex pattern. I mean
it complex in a good
way. It's not, I'm not
trying to say anything negative.
It's just that right. Not
overly complex. It's just, it
does a lot. So it's
where you have to take
that expression tree and translate
it into your own kind
of an expression tree. But
when you start, you know,
getting basic stuff to work,
but once you start getting
a projection, then suddenly things
become normal. Exactly. Right. Yep.
Interesting. Interesting. So here, I'm
going to play the role
of the guy that doesn't
know anything about subsonic. Sure.
And let's, let's walk through
what this is like. So
I'm a Joe developer or
Scott developer at this point,
I guess all developers named
Scott at this point. And
I've got a domain which
is true. I've got a
nerd dinner.com and I want
to make it a place
for people to register in
your dinners. And I've decided,
let's say that I want
to use Microsoft open source
software as much as I
can. I'm going to use
NVC and I'll use, I
want to use subsonic. So
I sit down, I get
my system and I, I,
what do I do? How
do I, what do I
start when I want to
do this? Well, you'd head
over to COVID Plex, download
and install the latest, which
is 2.1 Subsonic project.com At
code plex.com/subsonic. Yeah. And then
we have support@subsonicproject.com. That's right.
Yep. Okay. Okay. Should I
get subsonic 2.1? And so
what does it do to
my system? Should I be
afraid of it? No, it
doesn't. Well, we have an
installer. So what it does,
what a typical installer does,
which is, you know, puts
it in the program register.
No, no gap, no gap
at all. Oh yeah, yeah.
No gas. So nothing, nothing
in terms of a hardcore.net
stuff. This is all just,
you know, when you typically
install like a program using
an MSI windows installer, it
registers it somewhere. And then
in the registry ether, so
you can uninstall it as
well. So in your program
folders, a program's files folder,
you'll see a subsonic folder
in there and you'll have
all the bits, including our
assemblies and also our co-generation
templates. But that's neither here
nor there to install it
into your project. There are
a couple of, a couple
of settings need to do
on the web config. And
if you go to subsonic
project.com right there on the
front is watch this video.
It's all of six minutes.
And it's me slobbering into
a microphone telling you and
showing you by my typical
webcast ways, how to set
up subsonic in your project.
Okay. And it uses the
connectors. Do you install admins
and do you mess with
visual studio in some way?
No. No. Initially when we
were, when we came out
with subsonic a while ago,
we use the build provider
that's specific to a website
versus Lynette web application project.
And I'm going to assume
we're going to use, we're
using MVC for nerd dinner,
right? So that is a
hybrid of kind of a
web application project, a long
and short of it is
you can't use a build
provider. What we did before
was we used the build
provider to actually generate code
in, like I used to
say in memory, but it's
more like in the temporary
ASP net folders, but you
had access to the code
that was generated. It didn't
create any files in your
project. It was just there.
And so that's, that was
the original appeal of it.
And you didn't have to
manage it and you didn't
have to do anything to
build provider digital for you.
Okay. So at that, in
that case, in that example,
subsonic is a bill provider
and code generator exactly. For
dolls, for data access layer.
Exactly. But the Dalit generates
isn't, isn't a generic Dal,
it's its own Dallas, its
own style. You don't generate
and hibernate stuff. You generate
subsonic stuff. Yeah. We use,
you know, we use kind
of the lightweight, I call
it ORM light where, you
know, you, you kind of
project the database as your
domain or model back into
the application. And he worked
from that point on and
we used active record the
active record pattern simply because
it was easiest. And which
kind of winds me back
to the whole focus and
goal of subsonic, which was
to kind of take the
80% approach, which is, you
know, 80% of the projects
out there are lightweight eat
just really quick implementations, probably
don't need to use what
I'll call a heavyweight pattern
or enterprise patterns. They could
be prototypes. You know, Aaron Jensen
told me once he said,
I thought subsonic was just
a toy. I mean, it
doesn't really do much. And
it doesn't really do this
enterprise stuff. And I said,
well, you know, toy is
fine. It's a good way
to put it. But at
the same time, you know,
let's face it. Most of
the applications that people are
working on out there in
the world, aren't designed to
make airplanes. They're, you know,
they're, they're just sort of
these basic applications now, are
you, are you, are you
minimizing subsonic a little bit
there? Are you saying that
you, you would use it
for little stuff and not
for big stuff, you know,
for, in terms of active
record, that would, that would
sort of be the approach
and the reason why I
say that, if so, I'm
have a caveat coming. So
there's two parts of what
I'm about to say. The
first part is if you're
going to use active record,
you know, generally it's kind
of a boom bang kind
of thing. I want to
get this thing done and
want to get it out.
I have some work to
do and there's, this is
not an enterprise app, et
cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So in that case, yeah,
it's sort of a lightweight,
however, the second part of
that is you can also
absolutely use it in a
higher enterprise pattern. Like the
pattern we just talked about.
If you want to implement
repository with dependency, injection and
all that stuff, you certainly
can. And I have, I
have a blog post on
that and it's on subsonic
project is.com as well, where
I show you how to
just use the query tool
to go retrieve some data
and fill in your model.
And yeah. So you can
definitely do something like that
too. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman with a word from
our sponsor. Do you know
how to build web 2.0
Ajax applications with web 1.0
components? You really can't. If
you want to do the
next generation web applications you'll
need next generation components. Just
like the ones that our
friends at Telerik have got
their rad controls for ESPN
at Ajax. So a huge
pack of web controls built
on top of asp.net, Ajax
that lab previously impossible performance
interactivity to your next project.
The new controls mirror, the
Ajax API from asp.net. So
development is really straightforward. The
client scripts are shared. So
loading time is not a
problem. If you just set
a couple of properties and
you'll be able to automatically
bind a web services for
a really efficient operation, the
new rad editor from ESPN
and Ajax, Telerik loads up
to four times faster than
before. And the new rad
grid handles thousands of records
and just milliseconds, but as
always, it's best to try
for yourself. So you can
visit  dot com slash
ASP, net Ajax, and download
a trial. Thanks a lot.
Now, where do you, where
do you see subsonic fitting
into a world with, you
know, LLB Elgen and Ben
hibernate and all those kinds
of things. Those are more
focused on it being NRM
while yours is more of
a Swiss army knife. Exactly.
It all comes back to,
I have a one sentence
value principle that I've applied
to this project ever since
I started it. And that
is, I want the developer
to go home early. And
I, my opinion has always
been that there's too much
cruft and complication in our
lives. There really is. And
as developers and geeks, we
overcomplicate things. It's just our
nature. And in a lot
of times, it's just doesn't
matter what the things were
we're spinning out on. Just
doesn't matter. You know, and
I'm not trying to minimize
her to say things are
unimportant, but the point being
that the whole goal of
subsonic is to just get
the work done, get you
out the door. So I
forgot the question you just
asked me, cause I was
going off on a tangent.
You're too focused on getting
out the door cause you
live in Hawaii and your
focus is always to leave
work. I know. Yeah, exactly.
Right. It's a beautiful sunny
day. Why am I talking
to you? My question was
where do you see you
as it relates to more,
more formal open source, but
industrial strength, ORM, are you
industrial strength? I don't know
what that means, but people
always have No it's okay.
A good question. Industrial strength
in terms of, can I
scale or can I can
subsonic scale? Can it handle
the load? Of course it
can. In terms of, in
terms of kind of applying
patterns that let's say the
all.net crowd holds dear, maybe
not, maybe it won't, it's
not so good that way.
And hibernate is excellent at
doing the things that
in theory are supposed to
do. You know, for me,
theory is wonderful, but I
don't hold tight to it.
So what I've tried to
do with subsonic is to
make it as absolutely flexible
and sort of hybrid and
just get the job done.
And, and so, you know,
if you need to, I
don't want to say cut
corners, but I have a
thing in there. This is
a quick tangent. I have
a query in there called
an Atwood query and also
called a coding horror query,
which just takes inline CQL
cause you know, Jeff, Jeff
had a rail against That.
You liked command dot Atwood
query. Yeah. You can say
a new, new subsonic dot
Atwood query and then you
have to just send in
straight SQL. That's actually what's
called. Yeah. That's awesome. Well,
yeah, I respect them. I
respect the framework. Just that
much more. Now It's a,
it's a little, a little
Easter egg I threw in
there for Jeff. Has he
ever found it? Hopefully I'm
on it now, but he's
busy doing other things. Oh
yeah. He's a very busy
man. So anyway, that's how
it stacks up against, against
the bigger, the bigger heavyweight
things out there. And you
know, we don't have XML
files. We don't, we don't
have built in the concept
of abstracting out a model
of for you and whatever.
We kind of leave that
to you. Whereas in hibernate
tackles a little bit, bit
of a bigger picture, that
way they have caching, they
have this thing called a
future query, which is really
cool. All these great ideas.
And I, you know, I'm
trying to keep it lightweight
and easy. Okay. So I've
downloaded that. I install it.
You don't screw up my
gack. Do I start at
the database or do I
start writing? What do I
do? I mean, I've got
nerdina.com. I know that there's
going to be nerd dinners.
You know, I know what
am I domain is going
to be, where do I
start With the database and
build out your model in
your database. That's so database
focused. I know I can't.
Yeah, I know it's so
what a year ago? Two
years ago. Okay. But, so
I started the database, so
I have to show, so
it really is table focused.
It's not like rails where
I can, can make a
markup file that describes what
the database looks like. And
you can project it onto
the database. You can share
you can we have migrations
as well. So generate my
database form. It can, yeah,
we can. We have migrations.
So if you want to,
if you want to use
migrations, this is a good
time to introduce the second
aspect of what subsonic has.
We have a, a command
line tool that does a
lot of cogeneration for you.
And so that is also
as part of the installer
and it's called Sonic dot
exe, also known as sub
commander. And so what you
can do is you can
just work directly with the
command line tool and you
can do things like generate
your data access code, and
it puts it right into
your project. You can harness
those calls into a, like
a, an external tool process
inside visual studio, which is
what I urge people to
do. We have all this
in screencast walkthroughs by the
way on our site. And
so yeah, you can do
things like that and to
run migrations, it's one of
those you say, Sonic dot
exe migrate, and then the
name of your table. And
then it spits out the
code that you need sticks,
enter project. And then you
go from there using, you
know, kind of typical thing,
like, you know, a new
table with this name, table
dot add column table that
add column with the type
and so on. And then
you hit migrate Sonic XE
migrate, and then it will
do it. It'll generate your
database. So what, what am
I writing to get my,
if I'm going to have
a dinner, a dinners table,
and I'm writing markup, if
I'm writing C-sharp am I
writing something You writing C
sharp and you would say
using my, yeah, you'd say
using migration M equal to
new migration and then open
and break open brace. I'm
going to do this in
C sharp on the flat
top of my head. Woohoo.
And then you'd say dinner
table, which is, you know,
you'd say table, and then
you give it a name,
dinner equals new table, new
table with, you know, in
quotes, passing the constructor. It's
the name? Describe the whole
table in C sharp. Yes
you can. And the cool
thing is if you forget
to add a primary key,
we add it for you.
You can also add, you
can add our audit columns.
We have four of them,
which is created by created
on modified, by modified on
as well as a timestamp
field. That's added for you
automatically. If you tell it
to you'd say, add subsonic,
state columns, it'll do it.
And then that's it. And
so if, when you're in
your projects and you hit
run, our standard is that
there's a folder in there
called migrations. This our tool
will look for the files
and we'll actually pull the
code in, compile it on
the fly and execute it.
And when the execution goes
off, it turns it into
SQL and shoves it into
the database. And then it
forms your table for you.
Yeah. So I'm thinking I
do all this. Let's say,
let's say that I really
liked domain driven, design everything.
That's a better way to
do it. This is a
kind of a poor man's
domain driven design because I
mean, I am using, I'm
describing it in this case.
My, my DSL, my domain
specific languages happens to be
C-sharp plus subsonic. I described
my migrations. You will, I
run this and you'll go
off to my database and
add the appropriate tables and
create my SQL database. That's
right. Will you make me
do SQL files or do
I do all my migrations
use with your tool? You
can, once the, once the
database is created, we also
have another feature in hub
commander, which will take your
sequel, both your, your structure
and your, or your schema
and your data. And we'll,
I'll put it to a
SQL file. That's a separate
operation. Yes. Sure. Okay. So,
so now I've got my
dinner's table and I've got
my dinner database and I'm
let me use asp.net MVC.
So I go up to
covid.com/asp net. And I get
that. And you know, I
start writing, you know, writing
tests and things. What is
it about subsonic? That's going
to make writing the tests
easy or not easy. Do
I need to get a
mocking framework? No, you don't
need a mock subsonic. In
this case, what I would
urge you to do is
to use a typical repository
pattern, which is very testable
pattern. And then inside your
repository, you can use subs
inside your implementation of your
repository. Let's call it your
SQL dinner repository. You would
use subsonic inside there, but
I would urge you to
mock or stub the repository
for testing. You don't want
to rely on subsonic for
any of this stuff. Does
that make sense? Well, subsonic
create that repository pattern for
me, Not at this time,
but I am working on
something to do just that
actually at the moment. Is
there anything that you want
to announce and give me
an exclusive worldwide? I wish
I could. Let's just say
if I made the announcement,
I'd be quite happy to
make the announcement. I can't
just yet. I have to,
I have to do a
few more things. Okay. But
you are working on something.
So, so that's interesting because
where I was going with
that was seemed like a
very obvious next step. And
you're already doing that. So
it's coming soon. Yes, exactly.
Right. Okay. So I use
the repository pattern and I
suppose I can learn that
pattern. The I queryable style
of the Rob Connery official,
not Martin Fowler. I repository
pattern from looking at your
MVC storefront. Well, in this
case, if we're using subsonic,
we can't do a queryable,
not with 2.1. So what
we would need to do
is just implement your typical
repository pattern, which is as
we need a call to
the repository, to get some
data that has to be
an explicit call. Okay. What
would those return then if
they're not returning, I query,
well, they're just, I list
of stuff. Exactly. Right. I
listed stuff. Okay. And then
I would just because I'm
using the repository pattern I
could fit, pass in, in
memory repositories and return. I
lists of stuff that doesn't
end the database and exactly
what my testing and my
mocking and everything's magical. Yup,
exactly. Right. Minimal mocking. Really?
Yeah. And well, this is
one of the neat things
about subsonic. One of the
features that not many people
know that we have is
that you can create your
own domain objects if you
want, although we do generate
it for you, but you
don't need to have a
generated for you. You can
actually, we have a, I
don't want to call it
a DSL, but it's a
very fluent interface, querying tool.
So you can say new
select dot from, and pass
in the name of the
table in a string, which
has extreme. But if you
don't generate your code, that's
what we have any way,
you'd say select new and
then from dinner. And then
you can say execute as
execute as tight list. And
then you pass in the
type of object you want
returned in a list. So
what subsonic will do is
will, Spelunk your object that
you put in and it
will actually tie the, it
will actually bind it for
you in a list and
kind of do an on
the fly sort of a
translation if you will. So
that that's, that's one way
to, to have subsonic be
a nice data access tool
for you. The benefit there,
because a lot of people
would say, why would I
do that? Instead of you
say a SQL command or
something like that. And the
benefit of doing it that
way is that subsonic will
talk to a lot of
databases, including my SQL SQL
Lite SQL CE Vista. And
you have a city be
thank you. And in Postgres.
So, wow. Yeah. So that's
cool. That's what that's, that's
a lot that sounds like
a lot. That would be
a very complicated test, a
test suite to support all
those databases. I think. So
you're just doing that. You're
just doing that, the ADP
and making sure that the,
the underlying SQL that you
end up generating is, is
very compatible. Or do you
have providers? We have, we
have a provider pattern for
this. And so what kinds
Do you make sure that
you're not going to break
just Postgres in the next
version? Oh man, that's a
good question. We have. Let's
see. So you got to
answer this, right? We have
to use different providers, different
data providers to talk to
different database systems, but they,
that those are not responsible
for doing our SQL generation.
So we'll use, we use
a, an inheritance pattern for
doing that. We have what
we call the ANSI SQL
generator, and then it will
generate according to standards, ANSI
SQL, but every database has
its own version of ANSI
SQL. It's pretty much so
we have, we have, we
have overrides override generators on
top of that, if that
makes any sense. So when
it's one of those things,
where if we find a
problem during regeneration, we can
go in and we can
tweak it with like Oracle,
let's say the Oracle SQL
generator is something we've had
to pay a lot of
attention to stuff like delimiters
and the way hand dates
are handled and so on.
So that's, that's pretty much
how we test it. It's
not easy. It's not easy
at all. Hmm. Well, but
it certainly makes my life
easier as the programmer. Yeah.
Well, you know, it's funny
in a small other tangent,
I had a big, a
big discussion on our forums.
Once one of the users
said, could you please stop
hitting the database so much
with your unit tests? Let
me said, I'd love to,
but unfortunately this is a
data access to all. I
don't really know any other
better way to do it,
to make sure the queries
that are returned are correct.
So I'm sorta stuck. So
if any of your listeners
out there have ideas for
me, I'd love to hear
it. Cause I like, you
know, Oracle in my SQL
and testing SQL. I mean,
sure. I can do string
comparisons, but I dunno, it
doesn't seem to be. Yeah.
That's a good point. What
is, what is correct at
that, at that level? Exactly.
Huh? Okay. So what I'm
that? This is the downside.
What controls, what, what website
controls, what page controls do
you have that are gonna
make my life easier? You
know, of course, I know
that you have some web
form stuff, but I'm using
ASP net MVC in this,
in this experiment For NBC.
There's not much, you know,
the, the thing I'm working
on right now. And it's
kind of, one of the
major reasons I was hired
is to kind of sprinkle
some, some goodness on top
of the framework. And so
that's kind of what I've
been doing over the last
few months, although I haven't
been terribly active in it
and it's mostly because I
want the framework to mature.
Like I can't, I can't,
you know, double up triple
up my work and change
things every time the framework
changes. But unfortunately I don't
have much UI stuff yet.
Well, do any of the
things you do have, like
the dropdown, the quick table,
many, many lists, do any
of those not require post-bac
such that they could be
used in ASP, net MVC?
I, if all of those,
I'm thinking maybe quick table
dropdown requires post-bacc, you know,
cause they're kind of data
bound controls. They flood, they
flex the, the core, the
core control framework, quick table,
I think just output straight
HTML. So that might be
a nice candidate, but I
haven't tried it yet, to
be honest with you. Hmm.
I think that, But if
the database, if the dowel
is pretty clean, there's probably
a, wouldn't it be hard
to make a bunch of
subsonic specific HTML helpers to
make life easier. And certainly
the ones that exist now,
but I'm thinking like larger
ones to spit out why
UI grids and things like
that. Well, yet you just
homed in on exactly the
reason I'm waiting on this
UI stuff. I mean, my
opinion and it's kind of
crazy when I was building
the, when I was making
the builders, I always had
a sanity check where, you
know, I would, I would
look at the code that
I, when I initially was
creating this way long time
ago, I would look at
the code that it took
to output an element. Like
let's say a dropdown and
then I'd weigh it against
the HTML that it took
to write it, you know?
And, and like, you know,
so HTML dot text box
and where you need to
add in some class attributes
was one of the main
culture culprits because it took
more code to use the
framework than it did just
to write, you know, open
brace or excuse me, open,
open thing, input type equals
text, you know, and then
decorate it with some code.
So, you know, that to
me is the sanity check
and it's something that I
need to have a good
grasp on before I do
anything with subsonic, because whatever
I created that basic level
is going to have to
kind of be the core
of what I create later.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah. So, huh. Okay. So
let me think here At
MVC, we've got our, you
know, we pick our unit
testing platform. We might need
a little mocking here and
there, but the repository pattern
will handle most of that.
I can pick whatever data
has been done, whatever, excuse
me. I can pick whatever
database I want because of
the flexibility of subsonic. Now
I would use subsonic over
an hibernate or over LVL
gen Y Well, well The
practicality of it, the pragmatism,
I mean, it's okay to
talk up your own project.
Yeah, sure. Well, so, you
know, LLB, I can't say
enough good things about it.
I mean, it's an awesome
tool, but it's, if you
have a pocket book constraint,
then that might be a
consideration. It, it, it blows
doors and subsonic in terms
of functionality, but that functionality
tends to be more edge
case stuff. If I can
just sort of, kind of
cushion it that way, France,
please don't send me hate
mail. I'm just saying, you
know, but it's an awesome
tool in terms of in
hibernate, there is a level
of complexity in terms of
implementing it and working with
it. Some people find it
a little daunting. Now that's
changing with all the screencasts
they're doing and the introductions
to and hibernate. So it's,
It's more of a, it's
more of a PR that
speaks to the pragmatism, I
think. Right? Yeah. And this
using subsonic is, is really
for people that aren't into
sort of the tinkering aspects
of, of building a website,
you know, a lot of
people really get into the,
the underlying like pop, open
the hood and let's roll
up our sleeves and get
greasy. Some people are just
like, I, you know, I
got this Honda sports car
with lowered, you know, neon,
neon things under the doors.
And I just want to
get in and drive fast.
You know what I mean?
I don't, if I open
that hood, it's going to
scare me. There's a lot
of people just kind of
want some flexibility, but they
just don't want to get
into the, into the kind
of minutiae. Does that make
sense? No, I like that.
That's, that's good. That, that
is a very pre your,
your pragmatism at every level
is what I'm hearing. Yeah.
Well, you know, and I
figured that the neon under
the door reference, you'd like,
cause you have that under
your, your, your minivan at
home, don't you. And I
saw that Nance, the minivan
has a lot of hydraulics
and things cause the boys
get my minivan now. So
what are some other, any
example projects? What is the
canonical project? When we send
people off to go learn
more about subsonic, I'm sure
people have heard about it.
And haven't necessarily seen the,
the example application. What's the
best example of a really
complete subsonic application. We had
about two a year and
a half ago. I created
a starter site. I called
it the subsonic starter site.
It was a web web
forms application worked with subsonic
2.03. It was just your
basic CMS file, new use,
this template kind of thing.
And we had a bunch
of widgets in their F
CK editor and a bunch
of other things. And that
was a pretty cool site.
I mean, generally it knocked
out 80% of the things
you needed such as membership.
It was all wired in
there. Logging in. We had
Ajax plugged in, we had
on the fly editing of
pages and creating, creating paragraphs
and stuff to make it
make, it was like, it
was like.net nuke, ultra light,
to be honest with you.
So, yeah. And the whole
goal was, you know, I
felt at the time 60%
of all the applications that
I remade needed, those things
and I could just build
on top of it. So
that was, that was what
we did before. We kind
of veered away from supporting
that only because of time
limitations and, you know, I
I'm, I'm my plan is
when we, when we kind
of issue out three point
out here in the future,
I'm going to revamp that
entire site. But so having,
having jumped on the MVC
team and stopped working pretty
much web forums all together,
it's sort of been hard
to, to, to support that.
Alright. Very cool. Well, Rob,
Kyrie, thank you so much
for taking the time to
sit down and chat with
me today. Sure. Well, I'm
glad I could help. When,
when are we gonna get
started on new dinner? Let's
let's put this podcast in
the can and get it
out and let's start working
on neuron dinner in the
next five minutes. Sounds good.
All right. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll talk to you
again.